# The-PHP-Practitioner
Repo for the Laracasts course.

## Single vs. double quotes

From [_PHP double quotes vs single quotes_](https://www.virendrachandak.com/techtalk/php-double-quotes-vs-single-quotes/) by Virendra Chandak:

>Single quoted strings are the easiest way to specify string. This method in used when we want to the string to be exactly as it is written. When string is specified in single quotes PHP will not evaluate it or interpret escape characters except single quote with backslash (‘) and backslash(\) which has to be escaped.

```
echo 'This is \'test\' string';
//Output: This is 'test' string
```

>In double quoted strings other escape sequences are interpreted as well any variable will be replaced by their value.

```
$count = 1;
echo "The count is $count";
```

## Separate PHP Logic From Presentation

Instead of nesting PHP in HTML, but: separation of concerns!

We create a file that will be in charge of displaying the data generated by the PHP. We can build a _view_ and call it: `index.view.php`.

We prepare the data and display it (we load rthe view). For this, we need to call the view file in the `index.php` file:

`require 'index.view.php';

## Understanding Arrays

The syntax for arrays (the equivalent of a Python list) is just:

```
$animals = [
    'dog',
    'cat',
    'bird'
];
```

Looping through an array in PHP is done through the `foreach` keyword:

```
foreach ($animals as $animal) {
    echo $animal . ', ';
}
```

> Note that in PHP, the for loop syntax is: _For each item in the array, this is what we do with every single item_. It's kind of the opposite of Python where we say instead: _For each item in the array, we do this..._.

What we call the single item we'll reference in the loop _doesn't matter_.

### How does this work in a view?

We could bring the markup in PHP like:

```
<ul>
    <?php
    
    foreach ($animal as $animal) {

        echo "<li>$animal</li>";
    }
    
    ?>
</ul>
```

But that's a bit sloppy. There's a better shorthand for HTML:

```
<ul>
    <?php foreach ($animal as $animal) : ?>

    <li><?= echo $animal; ?></li>

    <?php endforeach; ?>

</ul>
```

The differences are: No curly braces (we use `:` instead) and we close the for loop with `endforeach`. It's much better if we have a lot of markup: We don't have to enclose the HTML in double quotes, which can get kind of messy fast.

## Associative Arrays

Basically a dictonnary in Python: a set of key/values pairs. The assignement is a bit funny looking:

```
$person = [
    'age' => 31,
    'hair' => 'brown',
    'job' => 'web developer'    
];

```

When calling an associative array in a `foreach` loop, only the values will be returned:

```

<ul>

    <?php foreach ($person as $feature) : ?>

    <li><?= $feature; ?></li>

    <?php endforeach; ?>

</ul>

```

If we want to return both the keys and the values, we'll have to do it this way:

```
<ul>

    <?php foreach ($person as $feature => $value) : ?>

    <li><strong><?= $feature; ?>: </strong><?= $value; ?></li>

    <?php endforeach; ?>

</ul>
```

Notice how the `$feature => $value` syntax mirrors the way values are assigned to keys.

